Policy Analysis: Civic Metadata Standards and Other Contextual Information as Applied to Open Datasets Within the City of Seattle Open Data Program
============
 
## Description
Following an executive order by Mayor Ed Murray, the City of Seattle has been working to make data from all city departments be open and accessible.
 
The City’s program has four goals: 1) Increase quality of life for residents; 2) Increase transparency, accountability, and comparability; 3) Promote economic development and research; and 4) Improve internal performance management. 
 
This project is an effort to provide some assistance to the Open Data Program at the City of Seattle, particularly as related to metadata standards used by the City.
 
## Goals
The goal of this project is to conduct a policy analysis on civic metadata standards, and to develop that knowledge and make recommendations for usage within the Seattle Open Data Program. 
 
There are numerous metadata standards that are currently available, but there is a notable lack of regulation or standardization of their use. Data about some areas of civic life, such as bus transit times, may correspond to existing metadata standards. But for others, such the data generated by Internet of Things devices, metadata standards barely exist. 
 
How can the City of Seattle reconcile these differing standards and apply them to the city’s datasets? 
 
This project has three goals: 
 
* Create an overview of the civic metadata standards currently available (including the lack of regulation or universal standards), as used on regional, national, and international levels. 
* Review of the usage (or lack thereof) of those civic metadata standards within data.seattle.gov.
* Review the usage of data dictionaries with major datasets across data.seattle.gov.
 
I will then craft recommendations, as discussed below. This information and these recommendations will aid the City of Seattle in improving the accessibility of existing datasets, and will provide direction going forward for adding to or modifying the documentation for both new and existing datasets. 
 
## Deliverables
 
The above work will produce three things, each corresponding to the above goals: 
 
* A write-up of background research about the use of metadata standards. 
* Suggestions for how some of the most widely used metadata standards could be applied within the Seattle Open Data program.
* If time permits, a framework for the increased usage of data dictionaries within the Seattle Open Data program.
 
### Interim
The interim deliverables will be drafts of the three parts of the final memo.
 
### End of project
The final deliverable will be a three-part memo or report (envisioned to total approximately 15 concisely-written pages), with each section covering one of the above goals. 
 
## Plan for Sustainability
Progress on deliverables will be periodically discussed with David Doyle, and the final deliverable will be given to him. He will use this information as he desires. 
 
## Milestones
A rough plan of work is as follows: 
 
### Week 1: June 12th
Meet champions / attend data camp
Become familiar with Seattle’s datasets and Socrata
Read about metadata standards and the history of how they were developed
	For starters: 
	W3C's draft of Open Data Standards [https://www.w3.org/TR/dwbp/] 
	Learn about DCAT: [https://www.w3.org/TR/vocab-dcat/] 
Project Open Metadata Schema: [https://project-open-data.cio.gov/v1.1/schema/]
 
### Week 2: June 19th
Learn more about Seattle’s datasets
Meet with some champions? 
Talk to some external users?
Research metadata standards used in other cities
 
### Week 3: June 26th
Research metadata standards used in other cities
Consider regional aspects & metadata in Washington 
Begin to look more closely at City of Seattle’s datasets 
Focus on a few specific datasets
	Meet with some champions / stakeholders of that data? 
 
### Week 4: July 3rd
Look at City of Seattle’s datasets (focus on metadata)
	Meet with some champions? 
 
### Week 5: July 10th
Look at City of Seattle’s datasets (focus on data dictionaries)
 
### Week 6: July 17th
Look at City of Seattle’s datasets (focus on data dictionaries)
Start formulating recommendations, and outline final memo
 
### Week 7: July 24th
Start drafting final memo
Share preliminary findings with Champions (their July meeting is this week)
Ask stakeholders for feedback
 
### Week 8: July 31st
Incorporate feedback from stakeholders
Finalize recommendations & write final memo
 
### Week 9: August 7th
Finish edits to final memo
Present work
Write blog post to share this info with other cities
 
### Week 10: August 14th
Final time to tie up any loose ends. The final day I can work is August 16th. 